Add 2025 End of Year Newsletter (#828)
CSSUoB/cssuob.github.io: _collections/_news/2025-06-24-year-in-review-2025.md

---
layout: post
published: true
title: CSS' Best Year - 2025 End of Year Newsletter
thumbnail: /assets/images/2025-end-of-year-newsletter/thumbnail.png
header-image: /assets/images/2025-end-of-year-newsletter/ball-banner.png
---
Hello, hello, everyone! Congratulations on surviving this year of university. Whether you're a first year who survived
the wrath of DSA or a seasoned student who is preparing to graduate, I hope you've all had the chance to catch a well-deserved
break from exams and studying in general, and have spent plenty of time with your friends and family, wherever in the
country or even wherever in the world you may be now.

That occasion also marks the time to rewind and reflect on the experiences we've had throughout the entire year - and 
this is no different for CSS. [Since I've already refreshed everyone on what we've done during semester 1](2024-12-14-2024-25s-semester-1-overview.md), 
let's go through what we've done throughout semester 2.

# What's been going on
We held a lot of quirky collaborations with other societies this semester, with societies both well-established and newly

> created. For example, our regular SloLAN game night with GDS, UGG, VR and eSports, a very last-minute entry into the EPS
> Sports Day with the Eagles, CivSoc, MathSoc and many others, but also our `break;` variation with CheeseSoc. We also settled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
created. For example: our regular SloLAN game night with GDS, UGG, VR and eSports; a very last-minute entry into the EPS
Sports Day with the Eagles, CivSoc, MathSoc and many others; and, our `break;` variation with CheeseSoc. We also settled
```

> the score with Bad Film following the war waged in Semester 1, which we unfortunately lost because somehow they had someone
> who had played Mario Kart Wii competitively for roughly 10 years, so we were set up from the very beginning! Regardless,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the score with Bad Film following the war waged in Semester 1, which we unfortunately lost because they had someone
who played Mario Kart Wii competitively for roughly 10 years, so we were set up from the very beginning! Regardless,
```

> there was a bit more of a focus on the larger events this semester - so generally, we've been a bit quieter other than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there was more of a focus on the larger events this semester - so we've been a bit quieter other than
```

for these events.

We held our biennial trip to The National Museum of Computing, learning about old machinery that may have been used 

> during World War 2 or the earliest personal computers created. We were able to take on double the number of attendees we 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
during World War 2 and the earliest personal computers created. We were able to take on double the number of attendees we 
```

> usually take every year, but regardless, the event still rapidly sold out - but despite that, we still had a blast 
> revisiting the past, watching as technology changed through the decades, and even got to see some ambitious technology 
> that wasn't particular popular at the time, but made some kind of attempt at innovation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
usually take every year, but the event still rapidly sold out. Despite that, we still had a blast 
revisiting the past, watching how technology changed through the decades, and even got to see some ambitious innovative technology that wasn't particular popular at the time.
```

![The group photo of everyone who came to the TNMoC trip.](/assets/images/2025-end-of-year-newsletter/tnmoc.jpg)

> And of course, who could forget the incredible Ball!? This year, we held our annual ball at Macdonald Burlington Hotel,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And of course, who could forget the incredible Ball!? This year, we held our annual Ball at Macdonald Burlington Hotel,
```

> a beautiful venue that was right next to Birmingham New Street, making it easy to reach. Each attendee was treated to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a beautiful venue next to Birmingham New Street. Each attendee was treated to
```

a 3-course meal before dancing the night away, celebrating everything that was achieved this academic year. It was an
incredibly wonderful night for each and every one of us on committee, and we were incredibly happy to see our planning
efforts pay off. It was difficult to get almost 170 attendees in a single photo, but if you made it on the night, see if
you can find yourself in our massive group photo!

![The group photo of Ball attendees.](/assets/images/2025-end-of-year-newsletter/ball.jpg)

> If you don't see yourself, don't worry, you should still have photos of yourself - to relive the magical night, you can
> go through the photos at <https://cssbham.com/ball/2025/photos>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't see yourself, don't worry, there are plenty of photos of the magical night at <https://cssbham.com/ball/2025/photos>.
```

and has a lack of healthcare services available; and of course, Too Bad To Keep, a response to the ongoing bin strikes
in Birmingham where drivers can collect waste from those who cannot dump it at a landfill, and get paid for it. There were
some more light-hearted games developed alongside those projects, such as Clunks Foundation Creation (very on the nose, 
guys), Notable and Secret Sandwich Service, in addition to the Spinning Raps, of which won CSS' own category for
most fun hack! And of course, there was a significant focus on AI within some projects, with Neuphonic providing their
platform for free to all birmingHack participants and AlgoSoc hosting its AI hack category, which produced some incredibly
interesting results - SocratEase and Ocular are two of these projects, where SocratEase would turn speech videos of
yourself into feedback provided by AI, and Ocular used facial detection at your front door to ask those coming to your
house who was visiting, their purpose of visiting, and whether it recognised that person from an existing contact. Two
other projects that won prizes include StudySync, which connects students to study together, and Guess the Voice, which

> used Neuphonic's API to use celebrity voices, but also won in GDS' category for being the most user-friendly project.

Reviewer: this para is very dense, consider fewer of them or just discussing the two you wanted to highlight in the next para (ThatsAwkward and FLOORPLAN) and linking the rest to devpost

> And of course, there's two extra projects that were special in their own ways altogether, of which were ThatsAwkward and
> none other than FLOORPLAN. ThatsAwkward was a project entirely built by conversion students, who learned absolutely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And of course, there's two extra projects that were special in their own ways altogether: ThatsAwkward and FLOORPLAN. ThatsAwkward was a project entirely built by conversion students, who learned absolutely
```

*everything* (Git, APIs, Flask, etc.) within the 24 hours, and produced an incredible project that defied expectations.

> And of course, there's also FLOORPLAN, of which won the very first iteration of birmingHack and additionally Majestic's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And of course, there's also FLOORPLAN, which won the inaugural birmingHack and additionally Majestic's
```

category for the "Surprise Us!" category. They also let us know that they got published in the [SIGBOVIK proceedings](https://sigbovik.org/2025/proceedings.pdf)

> for 2025 with FLOORPLAN! Including acknowledges to birmingHack for organising the events, then retracting those acknowledgements
> over their loss of sleep.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for 2025 with FLOORPLAN!
```

![A group photo of attendees at the end of birmingHack.](/assets/images/2025-end-of-year-newsletter/birminghack-group.jpg)

> birmingHack was in incredibly high demand when tickets were first released - in the first hour and a half of 100 tickets
> being released, they all already sold out and required us to open a waiting list, of which garnered over 150 people. I do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
birmingHack was in incredibly high demand when tickets were released - in the first hour and a half all 100 tickets had sold out, with an additional 150 people on the waiting list. I do
```

apologise if you were one of those people who were on the waiting list but couldn't go this year - but I hope we'll see
you next year! There was no doubt that we saw the success of birmingHack, and so did the School of CS, who will be 
welcoming a second iteration sometime next year. 

In our AGM, we also passed an amendment adding the role of the Hackathons Officer, so if you enjoyed birmingHack and want 
to help organise an even better follow-up to the debut event, or you're passionate about hackathons and want to get 
yourself involved with birmingHack, this is the perfect role for you! Keep an eye out for the EGM that elects this role 
early next year, around the time of October/November.

Thank you to each and every committee member of CSS who helped make this event possible - and thank you as well to Adam,
an external volunteer from hackSheffield who eagerly volunteered to help ensure the event went smoothly!

> If you want to see some of the other projects that were submitted, you can see them here: <https://birminghack.devpost.com/project-gallery>

Reviewer: if following my suggestion on L73-87 then put this up there

# Outside of Events - Discord and Minecraft

> We've also been working on things for you to do outside of term time - whether you need time to kill or want to reconnect
> with some university friends virtually, we've got you covered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've also been working on things for you to do outside of term time.
```

might just want to merge this with the next paragraph or remove altogether

if you even aren't part of the Discord server, you can join our community over at <https://cssbham.com/discord>!

However, if you have a friend who isn't a member but wants to get involved, then we've still got plenty going on. We've 
added two new channels for you to enjoy, the first being the #activities channel, where you can start Discord activities 
to play with other server members. We've currently got a Wordle streak of 20 days, but it's not just Wordle being played;
you can do the daily sudoku, build a farm, race each other, fight each other in a suspiciously blocky FPS game, anything
that comes up on Discord!

![A screenshot of the activities channel, showing how everyone did in Wordle the previous day.](/assets/images/2025-end-of-year-newsletter/activities.png)

And last but not least for our Discord server, we've added a new opt-in channel, the #pets🐶 channel! If you need a bit
of extra serotonin to get you through the summer, server members have started posting their pets in this channel. You
can access this channel through the #roles channel, clicking on the "Pets" reaction to get the respective role that shows
the channel.

> ![A screenshot of a portion of the pets channel, including two puppies, one tortoise, a dog and a cat.](/assets/images/2025-end-of-year-newsletter/pets.png)

Reviewer: is it worth discussing small changes in Discord in such detail? (to me at least) it's not a very interesting topic

Author: The portion of the Discord was more targeted to those who interact less with it but could use these as a way to get involved over the summer - so it may be of less interest to us, but may be of interest to others
